---
layout: page
title: About
permalink: /about/
---

{% include image.html url="/NEHSI/images/octojekyll.png" caption="Octojekyll." width=300 align="right" %}

**The
Work of the Organization:**

The
**Negev Environmental Health and Sustainability** **Institute** **(**_**NEHSI**_**)**
is the home of a dynamic, multidisciplinary, independent team working
on the interfaces between environment and well-being. The NEHSI team
includes inter disciplinary researchers: clinicians,
biostatisticians, epidemiologists, exposure scientists, ecologists,
urban planners and geomorphologists from the Soroka University
Medical Center, Ben Gurion University of the Negev, and the Ministry
of Health.

In
the last decade, multiple high impact projects studying the health
effects of environmental hazards in Negev residents were promoted by
the Institute. We have developed novel tools for the assessment of
environmental exposures among the Negev residents (such as air
pollution, climate, green space and noise). We have used these newly
developed methods to investigate the link between each exposure and
the well-being of the Negev residents, with the aim to incorporate
the assessment of the environmental hazards into the mainstream
medicine. Lastly, we have promoted research activities involving
regional development, health education and assessment of
environmental quality. In light of the ongoing rapid transition to
urbanization, population growth, climate and environmental changes of
a fragile semi-arid region, our work has focused mainly on the
interactions between these social, cultural, economic and
environmental determinants and their impact on community health and
well-being.
