---
layout: page
title: The Project
permalink: /about/Project/
---

{% include image.html url="/NEHSI/images/octojekyll.png" caption="Octojekyll." width=300 align="right" %}

**Short
Description of the Project:**

In
recent years the Negev region has been subjected to rapid, on-going
changes including high intensity urban development and population
shifts. This change includes establishment of new high and low
technology industrial plants, numerous start up projects, Information
Technology (IT) centers, the relocation of IDF bases to the Negev and
plans to develop a series of new towns alongside expanding current
towns. 

These
changes, resulting with a rapid urbanization process, require
implementation of community oriented projects aiming to increasing
the efforts towards reducing environmental hazards, such as:
industrial waste, air emissions, human waste, poor living conditions,
motor vehicle emissions, residential area density and poor living
conditions.

Unlike
other regions in Israel (Tel Aviv metropolitan area and Haifa Bay),
the ability to correctly assess these environmental hazardous
exposures (for example air pollution) in the Negev area is very
limited due to lack of environmental monitors.  A broad platform of
monitoring sites and the development of robust validated exposure
assessment models is crucial for continuous evaluation of the
population health and the detection of communities at risk. 

Now,
more than ever, the use of education as a key tool for the promotion
of a wider understanding of the potential human health consequences
of global environmental degradation is essential.  The place and the
time present a unique opportunity to establish a center of knowledge
and education in the field of environmental health in the Negev
region. The unique environmental conditions, the environmental
changes and the ethnic and cultural diversity of the population make
the Negev residents an important target population for introducing
community oriented health education intervention programs aiming to
improve   quality of life in the region. 

We
believe that the establishment of the Institute as a central body for
the assessment, analysis and management of the environmental health
effects is a necessity for the promotion of the Negev population
well-being.
